# NihonYoGemu
Osu inspired Japanese reading game

### What Is NihonYoGemu?
NihonYoGemu is a in unity developed game which allows you to practice reading Kanjis using user created content. It is released as donationware, which means you can download, test and distribute it for free, however, users are encouraged to donate to the creator if they feel this software is useful.

### Minimum Requirements
* Resolution greater or equal to 960x600
* 102MB disk space
* 200MB RAM

## How To Use

### Game Input
The game tracks basic ASCII input characters and then converts the input to hiragana. The actual input is noz visible.
This means writing "k" inputs a k but doesn't show it. Only if you add for example an "a" does it show the resulting hiragana character.
This also means that you have to delete characters that you don't see. This might change in the future but for now that's how it is.

### Updating Levels

The game creates meta files for the levels to speed up loading times and reduce RAM usage. To reload levels you can either delete the meta files before start or delete the meta files of choice and then press F5 or Shift-R. This will cause a soft reload, recreating missing meta files, loading new levels and reloading meta files with parser errors. Additionally if you press Shift-F5 / Ctrl-F5 or Shift-Ctrl-R the game will do a hard reload. In this case, it will recreate a new meta file for every level it finds.

### How to get Levels

## Download ChatGPT extra levels

Thanks to ChatGPT's capability to create new stories you can now download some levels at this [github repository](https://github.com/GreenyNeko/ChatGPT_NYLs/)

## How To create Levels

Go into the editor and create a new level. You can check existing levels to learn about how it's done.
When sharing levels make sure to send the .nyl file.
The .nyl.meta files are unimportant and get generated by the game itself, so sharing them is optional but not recommended.

## File Explanations

.cfg
.nyl
.nyl.meta
.nys

### CFG - InputMethods Files

These files are used to translate romaji to kana. The default one is ime which is inspired by a subset of the Windows IME.
You can make your own files look at the ime.cfg to see what options you have available.
Additionally comments can be added by starting a line with a "\#".

### NYL - NihonYoLevel Files

These are the core of the game. The .nyl files contain attributes, sentences and kanji readings.
The level attributes are found in "\[" and "\]" brackets. The only attribute that exists currently is the author.
Attributes for levels are set using "\[key=value\]". The rest of the file contains either comments or sentences with and without readings.
Comments are achieved by starting a line with "\#".
Lines are cut into sentences that end with a new line. Alternatively if the ASCII comma "," ends a sentence the program will expect kanji readings.
So the structure is as follows:
<sentence>\[,reading1,...]
Again you can check the Tutorial.nyl to see how this was achieved.

#### NihonYoGemu Parser
NihonYoGemu features a parser that will parse levels for errors. Parser errors can be seen as a warning on the level in the level select. Hovering over the warning symbol shows the error.
Current possible errors include:
* Sentence has more than 105 characters
* There's less furigana solutions than kanjis

### NYL.META - NihonYoLevel Meta Files

The .nyl.meta files are an attempt at speeding up loading huge amount of levels, as well as, very long levels.
These meta files contain information about the level which is displayed in the level select. The meta files are created when a level is loaded and no meta file exists.
You can safely delete these files if needed, but keep in mind that loading times will get worse when doing so.
It also makes sense to delete these files if the information shown in the level select is incorrect or not uptodate.
In the future there will be in-game commands to do these for all files or for specific files.
It is recommended not to edit meta files and there is no benefit in doing so.
  
### NYS - NihonYo Score Files

These are binary files that store the leaderboard for a song including important information about your performance on the level.
They get created and appended whenever you finish a level.
Deleting them means losing all your highscores. Thus, it is not recommended to delete them. The total amount of scores that can be stored per leaderboard is 10.
